[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: We've tackled events.
Let's see if we can tackle HTTP requests.
Let me see if it's shown up here,
>> Jafar Husain: So
I believe in this particular example
we're showing off the jQuery API for
getting a Jason object.
What we're gonna do now is we're
actually gonna break out of this little,
we're looking at this much code, and we're
actually gonna try and widen our scope and
see what it's like to actually use Rx for
real in an app that you have, right?
And so we're gonna try and
start from the the beginning and
go to the end of a problem, okay?
So I'm going to be using, for this
exercise I'm going to be using JS Bin.
Who here is familiar with JS Bin?
So it's a really cool online
coding tool that you can try out.
So if you go to jsbin.com, what is really
nice about JS Bin is that you can easily
import the Rx library and
play around with it.
So first of all just go to
jsbin.com in your favorite browser.
And I'm gonna go to Add Library.
So what JS Bin does is it actually has
tabs, so it's really easy to print
out of the web application because you
can have tabs displaying the console,
the JavaScript window, CSS,
which I won't activate, and HTML.
So for this example we're gonna try and
create a drop down list like,
exactly sort of like Wikipedia, right?
And we're going to start by including Rx.
So if you see where I am right here, I go
to the Add Library tab on the top left of
JS Bin, and if you scroll all the way
to the bottom you'll see rx.all.
And that's a library that has
all of Rx's operators in it, so
if you just select rx.all,
it will add it to the JavaScript page.
The other thing we're gonna load in,
although we're not going to use it for
very much I promise, is jQuery.
We're only going to use jQuery for
it's JSONP ability and
then we're gonna wrap that as an
observable to demonstrate how we can take
existing APIs, async APIs,
and wrap them as observables.
Which is a really key thing to starting to
use observable in your existing system.
Being able to take those callback APIs and
wrap them as observables.
So, I'm going to import jQuery,
which we're going to use
to make network requests.
But we're gonna wrap the jQuery API so
that it bits an observable
instead of uses a callback.
So one thing we're also gonna do is we
are gonna add a text box to the body.
I'm gonna add it, I'm gonna give it
an ID so we can pull it out later.
And now to demonstrate how JS Bin works,
here in my JavaScript window,
one thing that we notice we can do is we
can actually select from a drop down list
of many different possible languages.
In this case if you choose 6 to 5,
that's actually the old name
of the Babel transpiler, which I may
have mentioned to you yesterday.
So if you just choose 6 to 5,
no matter what browser you're in,
even if it's Chrome,
you can start using the arrow function.
So I can do something like this.
>> Jafar Husain: So 6 to 5,
that should be updated.
It's technically the new name of Babel is,
the new name is Babel
>> Jafar Husain: Is that
clear to everybody?
So now we're up and running.
We got a running example.
And we're using 6 to 5s.
So we can use arrow functions.
>> Jafar Husain: So
we're gonna try and put together at least
a simple dropdown list based on Wikipedia.
And you know how in Wikipedia,
you start typing and
you see a variety of different results.
So the very first thing we're gonna do
is we are going to start listening for
the keypress event on the tex tbox,
cuz that's where we have to start, right?
We've got two different async
APIs we're gonna be working with.
One is the event on the text box,
and the other is the asynchronous
request that we get from jQuery.
And we're gonna start by adapting
them both to observables.
So let's just use the old way
of adding an EventListener to
a text box.
>> Jafar Husain: I
want to make sure my
HTML tab is open here.
It is, although I'm not seeing it.
Output tab, there we go.
So if I select my HTML,
6 to 5 console and output tabs.
Are we gonna have some problems
of the font size on this?
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah, I mean in JS Bin
you can select the font size.
[INAUDIBLE] in the Settings button.
>> Jafar Husain: Hm.
>> Off Camera 1: You can bump it,
but then you'd have to-
>> Jafar Husain: Tell you what,
what I'll do is I'll, now that we've
added the HTML, I'll hide the HTML pane,
because we don't need to see that anymore.
We've added our text box,
we've added jQuery.
Is this any better,
do we need to go higher?
>> Off Camera 1: I mean ideally, but
that's-
>> Jafar Husain: I can make it work,
I can make it work.
>> Off Camera 1: That's better.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay,
not gonna leave us a lot of room but
we'll make it work.
So.
>> Jafar Husain: Now hopefully
what should happen, is if I get a key
press, it's gonna start logging stuff.
It doesn't like that size.
What's going on?
So
it's actually showing us our console
log which is when I type a key,
it's logging in out here to the console.
So we take a look at that, you'll see this
actually showing us that big event object.
So if I clear this console and
I click, we see that big event object.
So let's not print out that whole big
event object, it's a lot of information.
I think the keypress object has a keyCode.
>> Jafar Husain: I think it's keyCode.
So now we see the keyCodes of
the event object it prints.
So instead of building on top of
addEventListner or removeEventlistner,
which is all DOM event based,
we're gonna build on top of observables.
So we need to adapt the event
to the observable interface.
So remember how we do that, so
I'm just gonna pull in observable and
I'm going to, the observable tape is
actually hanging off the Rx namespace
which is brought in when you bring
in the Rx library right over here.
So using rx.all, and so we're binding
a variable to observable, so we don't
have to type rx.observable every single
time, and I'm gonna buy us some room here.
So the first thing to do is,
what collections do we have?
Well the very first thing we want
to start with is keypresses, and
we want that to emit an observable
instead of being a dominant.
So let's grab a handle to our text box,
first thing's first.
We're gonna use document.getElementByID.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay.
Do we already got that?
Okay.
And now we're going to create
the keypresses observables.
So it's the collection of
all the keypresses that will
ever be by using fromEvent
passing in the text box and
the keypress is the name of the event.
>> Jafar Husain: So
let's try this out to see if this worked.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm
gonna turn off auto-run so it doesn't
keep filling up our console here.
So how do I subscribe to
an observable to get the data out?
Well, I just forEach over it
>> Jafar Husain: Okay,
so if everything worked,
we should run this.
And if I type into the text box that
you see on the right over here,
we should start to see
results in the console.
But first I have to just run.
So run, and now if I type.
>> Jafar Husain: Didn't
quite work.
>> Jafar Husain: I
get that right.
>> Jafar Husain: Was prepared for
this eventuality.
>> Jafar Husain: Hmm.
>> Jafar Husain: My forEach in here?
>> Jafar Husain: Let's hope that's not
a big problem.
>> Jafar Husain: So so far so good.
We're actually getting into the handler
there when I get a keypress.
But we're not getting the X object.
And that might be because I'm
preventing the default action
here.
>> Off Camera 1: Someone
says you need to add an ID to the HTML.
>> Jafar Husain: Thank
you very much guys out there.
No, I've got an ID on the HTML.
>> Off Camera 2: Go
over your input [INAUDIBLE].
Sorry, do you need me to close that?
>> Jafar Husain: No shouldn't need to
close it on HTML.
So we'll alert the test.
And it's probably a small problem.
I know what it is.
I need to return.
So I want to clarify.
I'll actually,
I need to get to this just yet.
I'll delete this.
Hm, test, okay.
And now let's write out X.
This should be the event object, great.
And now lets console log it instead of
alert it, which will be slightly less
intrusive.
>> Jafar Husain: Great,
so we're back where we were before
when we were using addEventListener.
Now we can just 4H over it, and we're
printing an H event object to the console.